hey there welcome
writer producer and actor you know from
Pineapple apple express Knocked Up and
super bad
Hollywood it's not a fair industry it is
not fair who makes any given phone call
is one that is like making your life or
one that is yet another door slamming in
your face we had finished super bad and
then we wrote Pineapple Express no one
wanted to make it
but if you don't quit you might make it
people would obviously look at you and
assume that you have zero self-doubt
because you've been so successful in
what you've done but what's your journey
been with self-doubt I'm at the point
it's funny my career where like not a
lot of people are in a position to like
yell ing but Iowa will have a cultural
institution tell everyone that I suck
that will add self-doubt
Green Hornet
critical reviews for that like what's
that phase like any opening weekend
honestly and any time I have a thing
coming out it sucks I think if most
critics knew how much it hurt the people
that they are writing about they would
second guess the way they write these
things like it's devastating and
something that people carry with them
literally their entire life foreign
before we get into this episode just
wanted to say thank you first and
foremost for being part of this
community
um the team here at the diver Co is now
almost 30 people and that's literally
because you watch and you subscribe and
you um leave comments and you like the
videos that this show has been able to
grow and it's the greatest honor of my
life to sit here with these incredible
people and just selfishly ask them
questions that I'm pondering over or
worrying about in my life but this is
just the beginning for the day of this
year we've got big big plans to scale
this show and to every corner of the
world and to to diversify Our Guest
selection and that's enabled by you by a
simple thing that you guys do which is
to watch so if there's one thing you
could do to help this show and to help
us continue to do what we do it's just
to hit the Subscribe button if you like
this show if you like what we do here if
you watch these episodes please just hit
that subscribe button means the world
let's get on with it
[Music]
so if you've had an incredible
twisting turning career and I have to
say when I was reading about your
earliest years
an unexpected one in many respects
to me too
what do I need to know about
um about you where you came from how you
were raised to understand the man that
you are
I mean I get that depends on your
appetite I guess
um uh I don't think anyone needs to know
anything but if uh if you're curious
um
I don't know I mean there's a lot uh I
uh I think a general uh when I look at
my life I guess I started young I think
that's something that I uh I I kind of
view is one of like the defining traits
and characteristics of my life and I
think uh I've always worked very hard uh
and I've always had very supportive
parents and I think those things all uh
are things that when if you're looking
at like if you're if you're curious
about how I got to where I am from like
a career standpoint I think and just
like who I am as a person a lot of ways
I think those those things were
instrumental yeah your parents yeah I
was reading about them yeah they're very
strange people yeah
how so I mean everyone's parents are
strange to them I would imagine I would
uh yeah they're just they're kind of uh
you know my dad's kind of eccentric my
mother's uh also kind of eccentric
um you know they uh but again they were
very they're both incredibly supportive
uh I think because they're excited I
think a lot of you know my writing
partner Evan his parents were much less
eccentric by kind of more traditional
metrics and were much less supportive of
uh of his career in a lot of ways and so
uh I probably benefited from their you
know uh eccentricities more than
anything yeah eccentric's uh a broad
word what is it because I could I could
do this my parents specifically one of
them is being eccentric but yeah when
you say eccentric what exactly do you
mean
um I mean my dad
well my whole family you know I'm uh you
know like a lot my grandmother was like
an immigrant
um who fled uh World War One a lot of
Jewish families are defined by the fact
that people uh have been trying to kill
Jewish people for a very long time and
my family is no different
um a lot of the reasons Jews live where
they live and are where they are and not
you know in you know Eastern Europe
somewhere is because uh you know people
were trying to kill them and that also
shapes I think uh Jewish sensibility to
a large degree I know it did mine
because it's kind of informed by uh
neurosis and Trauma to a large degree um
and uh so yeah my grandmother is a
immigrant and
um she met my grandfather uh who uh his
parents were immigrants to uh Winnipeg
which is a very cold unforgiving part of
Canada
um
they moved to Vancouver ultimately and
had my mother
um and my mother wanted to go to Israel
to travel my dad's from Newark New
Jersey which is
um like especially where he's from like
one of the worst parts of America
from like a a kind of crime standpoint
especially at that time in the 70s and
80s
um and he my dad's like a so uh you know
a socialist and moved to a kibbutz in
Israel where him and my parents uh him
and my mother met and then move uh to
Canada so my dad has always been like
incredibly left-wing
um especially both my parents but my dad
really like he would have he would have
stayed like essentially living on like a
commune his whole life uh if you know he
never met my mother basically yeah
um Andy has like incredible kind of like
I guess it's OCD
I don't know if it's a disorder I would
say he has obsessive compulsive uh
Tendencies
um and uh yeah and he has Tourette
Syndrome so he's Twitchy and uh and I I
have it as well to some degree but those
are connected uh kind of compulsive uh
you know compulsion and Tourette's uh so
yeah I mean uh yeah no shortage of
strangeness to draw from when uh in my
family what was his um relationship like
with money
um I'd say not not that's relevant I
mean yeah we I was not Ronnie was I
think we did not I did not grow up with
a lot of money you know um
my parents my mother uh went to school
to be a social worker when I was very
young and then became a social worker
but when I was a kid she was a cashier
at a uh you know a department store and
my dad was uh worked at like a
vocational College as the known budsman
which uh kind of you know is like a
swing position to some degrees helped
facilitate life on the on the campus you
know a lot of time was spent working in
the game room from my memory uh so yeah
we grew up you know in a small apartment
and then
um so yeah I think some people who don't
grow up with a lot of money I think are
taught to really like Revere money and
kind of put a lot of emphasis on it and
I think other people who don't grow up
with a lot of money uh kind of are
taught that it's not that important and
as long as you have enough to do certain
things then then that's enough and it's
not something that you should like
fetishize or
um you know make the be-all end all by
any means and I was definitely
more raised like that yeah is there some
sometimes a bit of a paradox when your
parents
um don't value money and maybe they
sometimes struggle with it that you grow
up trying to avoid that struggle
definitely I for sure had some things
when I was younger I was afraid of being
broke and I'm sure that for sure
informed elements of my ambition you
know I'm very lucky in that it also
coincided with a very strong like
Creative Drive you know
um but I definitely yeah remember being
very concerned that we didn't have
enough money and my parents not being
that concerned that we didn't have
enough money which probably made me more
concerned that we didn't have enough
money because I was like why aren't they
worried we don't have enough money
um so yeah that was that was something
that was cut but then that was when I
was like very young and then as I got
older
I saw that
uh you know uh when I got into high
school and stuff I saw that it I would
be fine you know what I mean on the girl
on the grand scale of things in that
apartment when you were quote unquote
very young if I'd asked you if I said
Seth what are you uh what are you gonna
be when you're older what would you have
responded to me
um
I mean I probably would have said I want
to write movies or something like that I
probably would have wanted to be a ninja
up until a certain age uh a Ninja Turtle
specifically probably yeah
um and then uh and then yeah I remember
uh when I was probably like six or seven
years old is when I started to Really
Wanna like the idea of making movies
became very like fascinating to me and I
was one of those kids with a camera who
was like running around making movies
out obsessed with movies quoting movies
want to watch all I want to do is watch
movies I like I love I like fell in love
with movies at a very young age was
there an influence in your household
that inspired that of the movies my
parents love movies they're like huge
movie fans
um they would go to movies again it was
one of those things like we did not have
a lot of money we would go to movies all
the time and uh in Vancouver Tuesdays
was like the cheap movie night for
whatever reason it's a slow night so
maybe they incentivize customers and
almost every Tuesday we as a family
would go to whatever new movie had come
out that week so we saw I saw everything
in leaders like constantly and I loved
it um and my parents you know had a vcr
and would take movies off of television
and we had this you know I think a lot
of you know people my age are kind of
defined but also by like those VHS tapes
that you grew up with because it was
like a finite amount of movies and then
I went to high school me and Evan across
the street from two uh video rental
stores a blockbuster and a Rogers which
was like the Canadian competitor but we
would go there every day after school
and just like walk the hour aisles and
for hours and rent movies we go there on
the weekends and rent talk walk the
aisles and rent movies like we were
um and yeah ever since I was young and
then I met my riding partner who became
my producing partner directing partner
Evan when I was 12 so I was very young
but ever since ever since then I can
remember I was like obsessed with movies
basically yeah and stand up that came in
at 12 years old as well roughly yeah you
know for me I loved comedy in general
and I love stand-up comedy my parents
are big stand-up comedy fans but truth
fully it was kind of like a means to an
end to me because I okay again it's
funny because it's like it was like
weirdly well thought out for being 12 or
13 years old but I was like oh if I do
stand-up comedy at that time sitcoms
were very popular Seinfeld things like
that so I was like
I was like the most practical path for
me to have some sort of success doing
this is I'll start doing stand-up comedy
maybe I can get an agent and then maybe
I can like get on a sitcom and be like
you know Ray Romano or Jerry Seinfeld or
something like that and then maybe I can
write movies and that can like turn into
a movie career basically and that was
like if you were to ask me when I was
like 12 years old like what is your life
gonna be like that's what I would have
hoped it would be like you know
remarkable because most 12 year olds I
know
I'm thinking like that what was school
what was your relationship like with
school was there any influence there on
you as a man today that early
relationship with school in your peers
for sure I mean the first movie I wrote
was super bad with Evan and it was very
much informed by our high school
experience it's largely based on real
things that happened I would say the
educational aspect of school were was
lost on me and and I from a very young
age knew that My ultimate uh life path
did not it was not gonna you know follow
you know an academic route you know um
and and my parents never put that much
emphasis on it honestly like they
weren't like you have to my dad dropped
out of college you know that they
weren't like you have to do this you
know I think more than anything they
actually saw that I was like
very inspired to do comedy and I loved
movies and they saw I was willing to
work very willing to work very hard from
a very young age and so
um honestly from the time I entered High
School which when I was 13 they were
like
they didn't care that much that I was
not doing that well in high school
because from because I was always
working really hard on writing movies
and doing stand-up comedy uh like from
around that time
uh until I got a little older but like
they saw I wasn't like lazy I was just
motivated to do something other than
school but the culture of school I loved
and the things that happened at school I
loved and I thought the kids I went to
school with were hilarious and and we
would go to parties every weekend and
people's parents would be out of town
and we were trying to hook up with girls
and buy beer and our friends were
getting licenses and fake IDs and all
this [__] and and I thought it was
awesome and hilarious and and I went to
like a public high school in like a big
city you know like
um there was like 3 000 kids at my
school Vancouver is a real big
Metropolitan City with downtowns and so
you know neighborhoods and the good area
the bad like hey you know you could
really get into trouble in Vancouver so
um it provided a lot of like Adventures
you know and and I loved it and and I
wasn't one of those people I haven't
either it's not like we were popular or
cool or anything but we weren't like
tortured by high school we were like
this is a fun adventure and we can have
fun here and
um and especially if we don't
put too much Stakes on the actual like
doing well here part of it
Adam at 15 years old you went to a
Canadian Comedy Festival do you remember
yeah
um yeah I remembered like a competition
I think it was yeah
um and uh yeah and I did pretty well I I
placed pretty well in the in the
competition I was okay I was pretty good
at stand-up comedy like it it was uh
yeah do you remember the instance where
Jerry Seinfeld showed up yes I do I I
came that was actually I was auditioning
to get into the Just for Laughs Festival
in Los Angeles and I show up and it's
during the day which is not great
there's not that many people there it's
maybe like five o'clock it's not a good
time to stand up comedy I'm like 15
years old and I fly I flew in for this
you know
um
there's Comics going up and doing their
thing there's like the Scout from the
just relax Festival there and like I'm
about to go up and I'm next and the MC
is about to introduce me and yeah and
someone comes over and they're like
Jerry Seinfeld is about to show up and
he's going to go up instead of you and I
was like what I'm like I'm here for I'm
here to audition for this thing and
they're like yeah well he'll go up and
then you'll go up after and I'm like I'm
gonna go on after Jerry Seinfeld uh
they're like yes and so he goes up he
like Anaya I mean he says his show is
still like he's as famous as as you can
as a comedy Star as there is alive at
that moment and it's what you're hoping
it's like you go to a stand-up comedy
club at that time hoping Jerry Seinfeld
will come in and then it happened and
these people like it's like they won the
lottery and he comes and he just like
annihilates and then he gets off stage
and then they're like and now like from
Vancouver 15 year olds Seth Rogen and uh
yeah my bombed horribly um and I did not
get into the Just for Laughs Comedy
Festival
and I told Jerry Seinfeld that story and
he was uh completely uninterested
he could have cared less
it seems like a tough thing for 15 year
olds a pretty horrific firing line for a
15 year old to put themselves in
stand-up comedy yeah I think part of it
honestly was informed by like my night
my overall like naivete to some degree
but I also
I
yeah I I was I was good enough at it
that it instantly wasn't like a visceral
painful experience you know what I mean
and it's probably
you know I played some sports in high
school but it was probably a similar I
imagine it's a similar mentality where
you're like yeah there's Stakes to this
and there's ups and downs to this but
overall I'm good at it and I seem to be
moving progressing in the right
direction so it's worth the the stress
of it in order to to pursue it you know
um and at times it's phenomenal and as
fun as you would hope anything would be
you know
um but also honestly what was more fun
was at that time me and Evan started to
write super bad
and that was like what I really loved
doing and like I like doing stand-up
comedy and writing stand-up jokes but
like I loved sitting with Evan and
writing a movie and to me that was like
at the time it's frustrating because
you're like will this ever get made is
this pointless are we wasting our time
is this just a silly Pursuit but it was
still
it was I just loved it you know is this
three line in all your sort of creative
work often which is about like making
people laugh
yep have you ever figured out like why
you know because I've sat here with a
lot of Comedians and I've and it always
seems to be something about comedians
where
I don't know some instance when that you
know maybe they were younger or some
kind of inspiration in their life which
made them somewhat compelled to
and and almost energized by the pursuit
of making other people laugh and happy
have you ever does that resonate with
you and have you ever identified where
that comes from in you that pursuit of
making people laugh and happy
um
I think for me
I don't I I don't like I think some
comedians have like a dark origin story
you know what I mean
um
I don't you know
um I think for me it was like something
I liked and something I was good at and
something that I was very like
encouraged and and fostered to do from a
very young age and I was lucky enough to
find another guy my age who was as good
at it as I was and as interested uh at
at doing it as I was which is like
miraculous like I had a lot of like
you know I read part of that Malcolm
Gladwell book and I'm not you know about
the uh
about you know the miraculous kind of
set of circumstances that it takes to
become like remotely successful in this
terrible world of ours you know what I
mean and like I think it was things like
my parents were big comedy fans so I saw
comedy from a very young age I'm from
Canada which is like a place that
acclaims comedy and respects comedy so
culturally I'm like from a place where
comedy is like
you know a relevant part of the culture
you know
um Canadians some of their biggest like
exports are Comedians and comedy shows
Lauren Michaels is Canadian you know
SCTV you know a lot of uh great uh some
of the greatest means of all time are
Canadian you know um and so it's
something that was always kind of just
always a part of like the DNA of being a
Canadian person I think to some degree
as well also I'm from Vancouver where
they made movies not to say it's like I
grew up in Hollywood but like they you
would see movie sets around you would
see I went to a high school they shot
some movies at the high school because
it was a very like cinematic looking
high school so you would see trucks and
stuff like that I didn't know anyone who
worked in the entertainment industry but
like you kind of would see it around so
it made it a little more obtainable and
if we lived like in the middle of
[__] nowhere and it just seemed like
completely abstract you know what I mean
so I think that I think that like my
path is honestly one of like being
supported and and being and working hard
and being very diligent but also like
having an environment that kind of like
bolstered my ambition you know what I
mean
um yeah 16 years old you you get a part
in Freaks and Geeks yeah and that brings
you to LA with your family yeah
why your entire family came to L.A my
parents my sister was in college yeah
and I read that they'd lost their jobs
around that time yes and that made you
the sole Breadwinner in the house
basically yes
well did that feel like pressure
being 16 years old and being the
breadwinner for your house because your
parents have lost their jobs in a way it
felt like an alleviation of pressure
because after six I remember my dad
telling me like after after like three
months or six months of being on Freaks
and Geeks he's like you've made more
money in this time than I've made my
entire life put together so like like if
anything was like an amazing alleviation
of uh of a weight because there was
money all of a sudden for the first time
in our lives
things could be paid for easily you know
and so I was more than happy to provide
for everybody because I suddenly had
access to an amount of money that was
like absurd compared to the amount of
money
I grew up with access to or anyone in my
family grew up with with access to you
know you work ethic which I've read
about over and over again throughout
your book and throughout various
interviews you've done seems to be
pretty spectacular and one of the quotes
that I read is if there were any kind of
dark driving force behind
um your other Ambitions quote it would
be some sense of financial insecurity
yeah probably but that's gone which is
maybe why I don't make as many things as
I used to
that's um that's a that's an interesting
journey to go on being driven by having
that sort of financial insecurity
developing a real sort of really strong
relationship with work and then that
falling away yeah and it fell away
pretty fast I think honestly like I
think by the time I
you know there was a point
so yeah I was on freezing Geeks uh and
then Undeclared and then I didn't work
for years but by then it felt like my
parents were like incapable of making
enough money to survive on their own
also so like once I had some money like
they it was just bonus money you know
what I mean like uh part of what had
happened is they lost their jobs and we
lived in a house so we sold our house in
Vancouver and and that's why everyone
moved to LA so there was a little more
money available because we had sold
their house so like it's not like my
parents were like just like a you know a
leech on uh you know they they they were
able to like make a baseline level of
like survivable income so when I had
more money it just
um yeah it kind of just added a a
cushion of comfort and then there were
times then they moved back to Canada
um when I was like 18 and I was in LA
and that's around when I became
unemployed for years and years so I did
then start to have financial burden but
it was like a soul file you know it was
my own financial burden and and it was
not I did not feel like I was letting my
whole family down or not you know
providing for my whole family it was
more I just myself was like oh I might
have to move I might have to move back
in with my family because I might not be
able to afford to live in Los Angeles uh
for longer because I was unemployed for
years basically yeah you were unemployed
for years and years yeah
um after that first roll on Freaks and
Geeks yeah we did freaky Geeks and we
did a show called undoclare that was on
Fox in 2000 2001 and then then I
basically didn't work for like three
years essentially yeah what's going
through you you know you're presumably
doing auditions and stuff like that yeah
does it ever like what's that phase like
of unemployment most people quit at that
point that's the point where you say
[__] this that didn't even occur to me I
I I I I I I did not
um I was freaking I was pretty kind of
had like a chip on my shoulder uh to
some degree I was writing a lot still
you know
um we were still
that's probably when we wrote Pineapple
Express you know so we had finished
super bad no one wanted to make it
um
but we thought it was good so we kind of
put it on the Shelf we're like let's
write another movie
um and then we wrote uh Pineapple
Express so we were busy and we thought
it was awesome and we thought both the
movies were awesome and in general we
were also getting like very positive
feedback as writers we just weren't
getting like hired to do anything and no
one would make our poofy so it was it
was this weird mixture of things kind of
being like encouraging and and very
frustrating at the same time and and and
that's almost like the worst part about
kind of being in that part of your
career which is the part of the career
most people who live in Hollywood are in
which is one where it's like
any given phone call is one that is like
making your [__] life or one that is
yet another door slamming in your face
that you have to like just suck up and
keep moving forward you know what I mean
and and so that that's happening a lot
at that time
um yeah and seeing your friends also
start to do very well and start to make
things you know that is uh it's very
encouraging in some ways but you
inherently get very jealous and you
start to doubt yourself and you start to
doubt if you are good enough to
um do it or if anyone will ever like see
and you're seeing you what you see in
yourself you know
um but
yeah it's you know it's pretty warm you
know and only usually so it's easy to
just hang out and keep plugging along
what's your um you use the word doubt
yourself there what's your journey been
with been with self-doubt people would
obviously look at you and assume that
you have zero self-doubt because you've
been so successful you've done
um I think
I think all creative
people and people who have creative
Pursuits in their life have self-doubt
like it's impossible to put yourself out
there I think from my experience and
from meeting all the creative people
I've met in my life from people who you
know it's their first day on set
you know and and they have one line to
Steven Spielberg they all have
self-doubt they're all worried people
won't like what they're doing that
people are gonna think it's stupid that
they're gonna think they're stupid for
wanting to do it that they're gonna just
reject it and and and by proxy reject
them you know
um that is like that is
from my experience pretty constant
across the board for all creative types
who genuinely like care about what they
do I'm sure there are some people who
technically like are maybe actors or
something and and do not have any of
that but they're probably not very good
and don't care that much about what they
do you know what I mean but in general
from my experience I would say that
applies to to creative people with
self-doubt and and for me it's
it comes in waves you know you have you
make the thing Everyone likes gets a
little better you make a thing everyone
[__] hates it gets a little worse uh
you know it you know and and uh and
that's a part of also doing what you
know I do is like you get you know like
there you know it's it's like
you know it's funny I was saying to
someone I worked with the other day like
I'm not I'm at the point it's funny in
my career we're like not a lot of people
are in a position to like yell at me in
my job but like the New York Times will
like publish an entire article like
saying I I suck at my job and so like
that's the trade-off is like I've worked
my way up to not having to deal with
that much like personal conflict and
face-to-face conflict but I will have
like a just like a cultural institution
to tell everyone that I suck you know
and so that that's kind of like that
that will add self-doubt uh things like
that you know
um and uh yeah and so it it's for me
it's for me something that's present but
I I try not to let it stop me from doing
the things that I think are interesting
and and uh and the things that I think I
would enjoy watching you know
um
oh yeah uh I mean what like what
self-doubt I'd say a lack of self-dest
baby hurt me at times
the criticism like someone oh yeah
of course it hurts everyone yes very
much so
um I think if most critics knew how much
it hurt the people that that made the
things that they are writing about uh
they would second guess the the way they
write these things like it's devastating
it takes year I know people who never
recover from it honestly years year
Decades of being hurt by because it's
very personal you know it's not like
it's not it is personal you know
um and so it is devastating when you are
being like institutionally told that
your personal
expression was bad like that is like
devastating you know and something that
people carry with them uh literally
their entire lives and and I get why it
[__] sucks you know I read it I was
reading through various moments in your
life where I mean you've had back to
back to back successes so it's hard to
find
[Laughter]
it
that's definitely not true yeah you seem
to I mean from the bird's eye view you
look at your work your portfolio I've
been trending well
you talk about you've spoken about in
interviews is is Green Hornet where
you've got you received some critical
reviews for that can you zoom me if I
was a fly on the wall in one of those
moments where you've received that
feedback is coming in and it's coming in
you know critically what what would I
see if I was flying the wall in your
home like what do you does it do you
stay in your bed do you you like what's
the the human impact it has on you it's
different things and I think there's
different
you know and that's another funny thing
about making movies is like and having
like and just being like a person who
works a lot is like life goes on like
you could be making another movie as
your movie is bombing which is a funny
thing because it's it's bittersweet
because like you you know that things
will be okay you're already you're
already working you know what I mean if
the fear is the movie bombs and you
won't get hired again well you don't
have to worry about that you're all
right you've been hired it's too late
you know
um but it's an emotional
wait conundrum at times just just
dealing with that and navigating that
you know um for Green Hornet it's like
literally yeah like
the critics for the reviews were coming
out and it was pretty bad and people
just kind of like hated it like it
seemed like a thing people just were
taking like joy and disliking a lot you
know what I mean
um but it was it opened to like 35
million dollars which was like I think
at the time the biggest opening weekend
I'd ever been associated with in any
capacity and so it was also like it did
pretty well and that's and it was a
funny thing where it really didn't that
one and that's what's nice sometimes is
like you you do get
you know you can grasp for some sense of
success at times you know and and and uh
but I honestly think things like the
interview were more like painful as far
as like people really taking joy and
talking [__] about it and uh and uh
really kind of questioning you know the
types of people that would want to make
a movie like that in general like I
think yeah that felt far more personal I
think Green Hornet felt like I just had
fallen victim to like
which was true like like you know I a
big fancy thing which was like I was
super and we were just kind of like also
like ahead of the curve a little bit too
much I think as well to something like
we were early on that on that wave you
know and so I think that
was easier to deal with in a lot of ways
because it was like not so much like a
creative failure on our parts but more
like a conceptual failure I think uh
like the interview people more treated
us like we had creatively failed uh
which sucked much worse uh and that's
happened a few times yeah where people
really act like we've just uh and again
it's not I'm not gonna act like this is
that bad like this is not on the grand
scale of things in life it's not that
bad like and I've gotten much better at
dealing with it as well and I think when
I was younger I really like
did not have as much perspective as I do
and now I am not I do not carry it with
me nearly as much as I used to you know
um yeah it's like it is the center of
Your World though these things because
you've pulled your creative heart into
into something so it's you oh yeah it's
like it feels like a personal rejection
it's like very much attached to yourself
oh yeah it feels like a very personal
rejection and it doesn't and it doesn't
feel like constructive it feels human
impact though what's like the human yeah
yeah I don't know sometimes you try you
try different things sometimes you go
out to dinner when you just try to
forget about it sometimes you sit there
and watch movies sometimes you literally
just like sitting on the couch [__]
pissed and devastated uh that I've had
different approaches I use sometimes I
would go to the beach I used used to
have a house on the beach and I would go
to the beach the weekends my movies came
out
um yeah and and
any opening weekend honestly and anytime
I have a thing coming out it sucks
because it just is stressful it's like
birth like it which is just an
inherently painful process even though
it is maybe bringing something beautiful
into the world it is a painful act and I
think that is like what releasing a
movie is for the people who made it is
like
in some ways it's inherently painful and
and in some ways it's inherently
beautiful and joyous but in some ways
it's also just very painful this is the
story of creativity yeah
making anything that you care about that
is slightly challenging or original or
new risks both exceptional success but
also
um potential Faith like yeah and the
more personal it is it's like
the more
the the higher the highs can be if it
works and the lower the lows are if if
it doesn't so you know the more the more
personal the rejection feels yeah a lot
of people can relate to that I know for
sure that that period say after you
receive feedback on the interview how
long is that process of trying to like
get back on your feet and get it out
your head and stop it occupying your
mind
I mean
it's interesting like I think
it's different and it rears its head in
different ways and I think like imposter
syndrome or self-doubt or you know this
phenomenon where like the more you know
about a thing the less you feel you know
about it in some ways and vice versa
um you know I think that is something
again that is like a common theme in
Creative people's lives the fact that
you read about it all the time is is
comforting honestly because you're like
oh it's a thing it's out there you know
um but to me it's never been that hard
to
to do the Creative really risky thing
and it's never been that hard for me to
convince myself to like take the leap
and do the thing that is maybe crazy and
do the thing that is a big swing and and
to put myself out there and I think
that's also what's good I guess about
being rejected enough times is you kind
of like you see like it sucks but you
can survive it and so it's ultimately
worth
trying to do it again you know and and
and even the worst case scenario
is survivable if you just keep going uh
from a creative standpoint you know what
I mean so I think uh that's also like
yeah uh where yeah we haven't stopped it
it'll nag at you at times but if
anything my biggest fear is to make a
thing that's like [__] boring or not
taking a big swing or it doesn't seem
like it's trying to push things forward
or or like it's just like
happy to relax and you know like I I
think like the fact that we get to make
anything movies TV shows it's like there
are so many people who are trying to do
it and we get to do it so like we we
should [__] go for it and we're
spending the money of these giant
[__] conglomerate corporations like
they're letting us spend millions of
dollars to make our crazy things like we
should go for it like we should really
look back and be like wow like can you
[__] believe we did that we that we
spent hundreds of millions of Amazon's
dollars doing that you know like like
that that's what's exciting so
um yeah it's something that like nags
you but I think luckily for me and I and
it's who I'm surrounded by you know to
some degree as well but like we've
always you know there's moments where
you doubt yourself and you kind of
Bobble but I've had always someone being
like [__] it let's do it you know
I get the same it's funnily enough from
just the couple of minutes we spent
together that
you you have no choice like you almost
don't
you're such a lover of what you do at
heart that you almost couldn't not do it
like yeah so here's a question then if I
told you today that you could no longer
make movies or do anything in the
entertainment or creative space
that would be hard I become a ceramicist
which I do spend a lot of time
a bummer though
what would actually your life be
um I mean I would it would I could I I
it's tough to think of because it is
very like ingrained with who I am and
what I do and like and it is like I
could stop working I have enough money
to if I didn't want to keep working I
could I could never work again and live
the exact life I live now until I die
you know
um it I have no kids I have not trying
to leave generational wealth to anybody
like I'm gonna I'm gonna you know like
we could just keep going
it's genuinely because like I enjoy it
and it's and it's a part of who I am and
how I spend my day and and what I love
doing and and people generally seem to
enjoy the output which I enjoy and and
it seems to be additive to the creative
landscape of film and television the
things that I get to be a part of you
know and so
um yeah it's but it I it mostly comes
down to I just like doing it and so it
would be hard to think of what else I
would do because like on it like I I
just write I love I enjoy writing and
I've been doing it since I've been
writing like you know screenplays since
I was 12 years old you know I'm 40. so
it's like it's so much a part of who I
am that like I do it all the time if I
have I'm generally working on a few
things if I'm making up a coffee and I
have five minutes like I'll I'll write
for a few minutes like uh you know I I I
genuinely enjoy it so it would be hard
to imagine I wouldn't I don't know what
I would do you're
um you have ADHD I don't know maybe
I mean I'm pretty good at focusing
honestly I read that um I read that you
had Tourette's in ADHD I do have oh yeah
I guess threats I mean maybe I'm more
true yeah I mean I I had some Tourette's
like yeah some Tourette's which is
connected to ADHD yeah yes yeah is that
ever had a role in your life is it been
caused a little
Tourette's if I'm being completely
honest I don't well well it's kind of
connected to like a compulsion uh
disorder where you it's like it it
manifests in like physical uh ticks and
Twitches
um the most extreme versions are like
people you know screaming like you know
swear words and [__] like that but it
all roots from like a compulsion to do
it
um and like it's like scratching an itch
that's the best way I can describe it
I'm sure you've been sitting across from
people who twitch or have a weird
eyebrow thing they're doing or a weird
thing they're doing you know what I mean
and I see it so often and that is that
is a mild case of Tourette syndrome and
I think so many people have it are
undiagnosed and I know the exact feeling
those people have when they are doing
that and it literally feels like you
have an itch on your hand and you're
scratching it and it's the same thing
from like a
musculature like movement standpoint you
feel like if you don't [__] up your
eyebrow you're not scratching that itch
and when you do you're like uh I did it
and you have fun uh yeah at times I for
me it was always pretty mild physically
but I still it does I I feel the urge at
times but I'm very good at not doing it
as you might know the show's now
sponsored by Airbnb absolutely love
Airbnb always have always been a you
know saved my life on so many occasions
and my team when we first got in touch
with Airbnb were talking about how most
people don't realize that their place
where they currently live could become
an Airbnb and I guess the second
question there is how much could your
place be worth and it turns out you
could be sitting on an Airbnb gold mine
without even knowing it some people are
going to be their entire homes when
they're away that's what I did in New
York whenever I left New York my place
was on Airbnb and people rented it out
sometimes for a day sometimes for two
days sometimes for a week and it's a
great way to cover some of the bills
while you're away so whether you're
looking to go on holiday or you just
want some extra cash for bills or you
want to buy something nice for a
valentine that you love whatever it
might be head over to airbnb.co.uk host
and you can find out how much your
current property where you live can earn
while you're not there I suspect it
might blow your mind because it
certainly blew mine you know all that
success you've had all those movies you
named recently that you you know some of
them of which are coming up soon you
know having spoken to you today I get
work ethic I get your innate passion
which seems to have been there since
you're a child but I but there's people
that have both of those things and
they're not Seth Rogen you know what I
mean so is there anything else when you
look back on your life you talked about
the circumstance your mother's you know
being around that culture is there
anything about you in particular a
talent and people find this hard to
answer because it requires you to say
something nice about yourself but and so
celebrities often say you know
but is there any what is it that makes
you good at what you do
um
I think I
I think I think man I honestly think
because I grew up watching so many
movies
um and having parents that appreciated
them
um I
from a very young age had an inherent
understanding of
cinematic storytelling of what and that
specifically from a writing standpoint
from how the movies were written that is
for whatever reason how my brain
processed it
how the characters were introduced how
the conflicts between them were set up
how they played out throughout the movie
how they resolved themselves or didn't
resolve themselves throughout the movie
how they manifested and set pieces and
sequences that exemplified the conflicts
and the themes and the and the the
tensions between the characters for
whatever reason from a very young age I
was able to understand and write those
things and I you know I look back now as
like a 40 year old person who has
produced and helped countless people
with their screenplays and written
countless screenplays like there are
things about like what we put into
Superbad as like 14 year olds that are
like
fundamentally functional and good in a
way that is like Beyond like the average
14 year old's ability the average the
average writer's ability in a lot of
ways you know um like and and that is
something that me and Evan really just
we we're lucky like we we got it and and
I think honestly as an actor
I mostly credit my ability to act as my
from like a right through a writing lens
and I think as an actor I understand
what the story needs I understand
I understand how that character needs to
affect things what that character needs
to do in order for this story to be told
effectively I don't view my acting as
internally as the other actors I work
with I know it I see it I talk to them
about it all the time I view it much
more from like a big picture like okay
here's the role this character plays in
the story how do I make that work as
well as it possibly could you know
um and I can do it so I I have some
performance ability which not everyone
does but I think I think I am I think my
understanding of how story Works kind of
helps compensate for my the fact that
I'm not the greatest actor and that I am
able to work with actors who are much
better than I am honestly um but I think
if I had to answer that question which
I'm uncomfortable doing that is how I
would answer it is for whatever reason
me and I found a guy with the same skill
which is like miraculous but like from a
young age me and another guy had a very
inherent sense of like
how to write a movie basically there's a
young creative listening to this now sat
in their bedroom or driving in their car
pushing that problem walking their dog
whatever and they they're a creative in
whatever industry it could be DJing or
you know the author there could be an
actor no
what is the actionable advice that you
could give to them to to you know
give them a shot of because there's a
lot of creatives out there that are
struggling yeah and you you would have
had this bird's eye view on creators
that end up being successful you know in
their careers and those that maybe have
the talent but don't end up getting that
is there anything actionable that you
can say to them that would help them end
up in The Talented successful group
um unfortunately the only way to
mitigate not being successful is to not
quit
that's it
if you don't quit you might make it and
if you quit you definitely won't
and and honestly I think after all the
years I've seen people make it and not
make it the only
common denominator is is that like I've
seen actors write themselves off be like
I'm never gonna [__] do this
try to get other jobs one of my dear
friends who's an actor
he's been an actor he's a great actor a
brilliant actor and his career Ebbs and
flows comes and goes they'll star on a
TV show for a few years he won't work
for two years he went and tried to get a
job at like a car dealership one day and
I was like what are you doing man like
and he's like I I can't I've quit acting
No One's Gonna [__] hire me again I'm
unhirable now he's like
like the star of the most successful
player on Broadway right now and like
because he just got this role a couple
of years after that and he's in uh one
of the biggest movies that's coming out
next year he's in it like and and it's
because he didn't actually quit he he
kept going you know and it's not you
know especially Hollywood it's not a
fair industry it is not fair who makes
it the best people don't make it you
know it's very luck oriented it's very
connections oriented
um I'm lucky like and I also worked hard
and thank God I you know have I'm a good
enough writer that I've been able to
have enough longevity in my career once
I got lucky but
like a lot of luck played Into My
Success you know but that being said
I've seen people get lucky very random
times through random ways I always think
about like Ian McKellen like did you
have you heard of him before he was 65
years old like that guy I didn't like as
I had never [__] heard the word Demi
Kelly until he was Magneto and X-Men and
all of a sudden he's like in Lord of the
Rings he's with one of the famous people
on Earth he got famous when he's like
60. like like that's what happens to
people sometimes you know what I mean
it's like you never know you know and so
I think that is is what's interesting is
and if you like it then just don't quit
and as long as you have enough to
survive then just keep trying to do it
you know but this could be something
that I can do to increase my luck be
really good at it
I think making being nice honestly being
nice being the type of person people
want to be around the people like that
people that comes down to it want to
help instead of not help that is very
good like I've seen
that just if people don't like being
around you then then then you will fail
because you need other people to help
you succeed you know
um working hard is like something you
can control in a very uncontrollable
world I find and like
um you know it's funny I was meeting
with someone recently who like ascended
very high in Hollywood and she was like
I always fetishized hard work like to me
that was like it like it it like if you
weren't working hard
I like had no regard for you basically
and like and to me that was like and and
that's a good reminder of like those are
the people you're up against and that
was something that I always knew from a
young age was like I I don't consider
myself a competitive person but I knew
succeeding in Hollywood was inherently a
competitive Pursuit there's only so many
jobs and there's way more [__]
trying to get their jobs those jobs than
there are jobs available so by the
nature of that I was competing with
people for these jobs and I knew I had
to be able to look at myself and be like
am I at least working harder than
everyone else who is competing for this
job I might not be better than them or
smarter than them or have as many
connections with them or be as good
looking as them or any of these things
but I can at least work harder than them
you know
um and that to me was something that was
like controllable and I've never seen
someone regret the amount of hard work
they put into their Pursuit and so you
know that that is something that will
help you succeed I think
has you
certainly you don't have any kids I do
not that has helped me succeed as well
[Laughter]
finally
oh yeah
but there's a whole huge thing I'm not
doing
which is raising children
people obviously someone's listening but
yeah but it would make you happier you
know someone might say that I'm trying
to rebuttal I don't think it would I've
been around obviously a lot of children
I'm not I'm not ignorant to what it's
like to I've I've seen everyone I know
has kids I I see I'm a you know I'm 40
again you know like it's not I I know
you know I've I've some of my friends
have had kids for decades you know um
some people want kids some people don't
want kids I think a lot of people have
kids before they even think about it
from what I've seen honestly you just
are told
you go through life you get married you
have kids it's what happens
um and and me and my wife we're just
neither of us were like that you know
and
um honestly the older we get the more
happy and reaffirmed we are with our
choice to not have kids like it was
something we kind of
talked about more and we're like are we
made the right choice are we sure now if
more than anything the conversation is
like honestly thank God we don't have
children we get to do whatever we want
we are in our we are we are in the the
prime of Our Lives we are smarter than
we've ever been we understand ourselves
more than we ever have we have the
capacity to achieve a level of work and
a level of communication and care for
one another and a lifestyle we can live
with one another that we've never been
able to live before and we can just do
that and we don't have to raise a child
which the the world does not need right
now and so that was and so yeah it's uh
we're very happy with our choice to not
have kids and I just I work I I work
with a lot of people with kids and I see
definitively that I uh have more time to
both do the things I need to do and the
things I enjoy doing than they do and
not to say their kids don't bring them
Joy but I I say this truthfully I I I I
I me and my wife seem to get a lot more
active enjoyment out of not having kids
than anyone I know seems to get out of
having kids
speaking of your wonderful wife yes in
my very extensive research I found a
series of photos I found this one yes
that's my wife Lauren exceptionally
beautiful she's lovely and I found this
one
yes that's Lauren and her mother
that's a great photo wow it's like a
real photo it's a real face where'd you
get this
internet that's amazing yes this is
Lauren and her mother Adele Adele a few
years ago yeah you've campaigned
exceptionally hard for Alzheimer's
following
um Adele's diagnosis yeah can you tell
me about that Journey yeah definitely
um you know what's funny it's like a
celebrity I guess like you know I you're
kind of asked to do a lot of Charity
things and find like a cause I think you
know and there's I think there's
pressure to find a cause and I think a
lot of people adopt causes that are not
organic to them and who they are and and
they kind of find themselves you know uh
in the midst of a cause and and
um and that it happened to me in the
past I would go to some charity events
and I always felt very out of touch with
it and and didn't really understand it
and
um then uh I met my wife and um and this
is in regards to the charity but also in
regards to just our relationship I'd
never been in a serious relationship
ever in my life really like a few months
here and there I had dated but never and
in uh like 2005 I started dating my wife
Lauren and she was the first serious
relationship I ever had
um and very soon after we started dating
is when she realized her mother seemed
to be showing the first signs of
Alzheimer's and I knew nothing about
that it really
it was not in my family
um and and what I didn't understand is
like oh it was a disease that had like
no treatment no cure it was only going
to steadily get worse until she died
from it which was uh uh truly
devastating and put me and my wife on
like a pretty intense Journey for the
next
you know uh 15 years or so basically
um and uh it really uh it really took a
lot out of us and my wife especially you
know
um Lauren felt very out of control and
very devastated and really scrambling
for like uh Outlet or no way to gain
some kind of agency over the situation
um yeah and our friend uh suggested we
do a comedy show and maybe give the
money to like an Alzheimer's charity and
we did and it went very well and my wife
started telling her story as a young
woman whose mother was in her 50s and
diagnosed with Alzheimer's and it was
really not a thing like anyone was
talking about at all and she found there
was like an enormous need for people to
connect with someone who was going
through this because a lot of people
were going through it and really no one
was talking about it and
um we very
we kind of found like a need for this
organization that we made hfc which
um became like you know an Alzheimer's
charity that really was like focused on
talking to young people
um many of whom were caretakers for
their parents with Alzheimer's you know
and and again it was just a thing it's
very stigmatized disease and not a
disease very many people
are comfortable talking about at all and
uh yeah and Lauren
as her mother progressed more and more
just talked about it more and more and
uh and it really
um yeah kind of made our charity more
and more prominent in the space and
um yeah has allowed us to do kind of
more and more things to help people you
see people don't talk about it enough
and part of that is results in people
thinking about Alzheimer's is just
losing your keys or forgetting a
sentence or something yeah
um what is the reality of Alzheimer's as
you've observed it well it's different
for everyone but it's inherently for my
mother-in-law like she forgot how to
speak how to go to the bathroom how to
talk I mean how to eat how to walk
um and was essentially like
you know uh someone you would move from
the bed to the wheelchair
force feed essentially move back to the
bed she was like that for like
seven years or something like that all
right I think she didn't uh and again
I'm bad with years she didn't speak for
several years
um and
and it was yeah if you saw her you
wouldn't assume it was Dementia or
Alzheimer's you would assume she had
some like horrific stroke or something
like that it was not it was not what I
understood like cognitive decline could
could cause you know
um it was far more devastating and and
yeah and I think uh people don't
understand how kind of dire it is or
they do understand and they just again
don't like talking about it because it's
really scary and people are weird about
their brains mental health obviously in
America especially people are very weird
about not a thing they like talking
about
um and so yeah it kind of TAPS into a
lot of things people are just scared of
in general we're told does that have on
the people around her like yourself and
your wife
um I mean it was just devastating for my
wife especially like it was truly one of
the the most upsetting thing you could
imagine is like very slowly seeing your
mother die over the course of years and
years and years and years and years and
years and years and years and years you
know um it's uh yeah I mean it caused uh
uh yeah it was it was very Grim you know
um but through the charity you know
there was a lot of like
kind of hope that came up at times and a
lot of like uh
you know kind of like wonderful things
that it felt like we were able to do as
a result of it so there was kind of
Bittersweet moments but in general it
was terrible
these times if you're um
last couple of decades for you that that
process oh yeah for sure I mean yeah
especially you know
being married to someone who is going
through something
incredibly traumatic
um is
yeah is is you know it's hard for them
and it's hard for you to know how to
support them properly and and how to you
know navigate their feelings and they
you know uh productive and loving way
you know
um and it's obviously much harder for
them
um and uh you know it it is uh but yeah
it's a it's a it can be hard for
everybody Adele passed away 2020 yeah
what impact does that have on
the family
um I mean in some ways it is uh a relief
of Burden you know especially with
someone who
was so sick for so long with no hope in
sight for any for any way to get better
you know
um
and
and also like devastating you know and
and it's something that I'm always
having to not having to remind myself of
something I'm always reminding myself of
is like you know your wife her mother
died recently like there's there's a lot
going along with that and and although
there's like this constant thing that we
are not dealing with there is there is
another thing you know
um and and again in many ways like the
active Agony of her mother kind of
slowly dying was was probably worse but
this is also bad in its own way you know
you mentioned Americans don't like
talking about their mental health yeah
or really anything cognitive no this is
their cognitive functions yeah I've
never heard you speak about your mental
health yeah I don't think it's that
interesting
that might be why anxiety
um not really not more than the average
you know I often think I often think
that the creatives over index with
anxiety for kind of some of the reasons
we talked about earlier
yeah I don't I think I have anxiety but
I also am constantly reminding I'm good
I think at analyzing my own feelings and
behavior to some degree I do have
anxiety sometimes but I'm also having to
remind myself that I am like
going through things that are
objectively anxiety inducing to almost
anyone and I would probably be weird if
I wasn't feeling some sort of anxiety
with the amount of public facing uh
pressure uh and exposure I have at times
um so you just tell yourself like yeah
you feel you uh this is you are feeling
anxious right now because you are
dealing with this thing that has a lot
of
public pressure on it you know um so I
think in general no in general I have
pretty good mental health I think
ask the people who work with me
[Laughter]
it seems like an unhuman way to live
right being in the spotlight and being
being
um receptable to so much public feedback
like you talked about how shoes are kind
of unnatural in rooster and natural
there's the way that we all live these
days seem to be so far from what is what
it is to be a human yeah
what can we like what do we need to do
do you think to get back to being a
little bit more human
um I don't know I don't know if I'm the
best person to ask you but I uh
I personally have tried to spend less
time on social media I think that is a
good thing I don't think that
contributes to one's Humanity
necessarily uh I uh what are the things
that make you feel most human then and
most connected
um
spending time with my loved ones my wife
my you know my my my dog my my sister my
family my my parents you know my friends
going to dinner with my friends going to
their houses hanging out with my friends
I I even though I don't have kids I
enjoy going to my friend's house and
hanging out with them and their kids you
know
um you know writing with being creative
with my friends doing things with my
friends making things with people that I
respect and the the feeling that I'm a
part of making something that I am
excited about and that I think is really
good
um that is I I again for me that's like
those are the moments where I feel like
I am
personally like living up to my
potential you know and and feeling like
and and and it is about the other people
even at times when it is work related
you know and I and I do think you know
uh the connections that you make with
people
even when they are creative are are
relevant and important you know and
um and so yeah I think those are the
things that I like I value is like
personal relationships and and creative
ones which I also view as personal
you've done you've done so much in the
in the space of writing and um and
entertainment you've then embarked in
other Pursuits businesses you know Point
gray which success house plant massive
success that's in a different industry
that's in you know the more
entrepreneurial side of your your
passions what is it what is it now for
you like what is the the thing what
makes you having achieved all of this
fired up and excited about
a challenge
um I get excited when I and it's it's a
simple metric I think which is any time
we're making a thing that I know I would
be psyched if I saw it or got it or saw
it was out in the world I get excited
like and and that's kind of it like if
I'm making a movie and I'm like I would
love this movie I would see this movie
and be like this is [__] great
whoever made this movie like [__] they
went for it they did it I'd be jealous I
didn't make this movie that's when I
know I'm doing something good and it's
the same thing with houseplant if we
make a thing and I'm just like this is
awesome if I saw this I would want this
if I saw someone else made this I'd be
like [__] why didn't we think of that
why didn't we make this what were we why
were we not thinking of this you know
um that to me and and then when we do it
and we're like we did it and we and it
worked as well as you wanted to and it
feels how you wanted it to to me that's
like it's exciting and because it is a
creative uh expression and and and I
think that's what's exciting to any
again I think person with like a
creative person suit which I view house
plan as and I kind of view everything as
to some degree which is like it's all
output that is meant to reflect my taste
and my sensibilities and and those and
that of those who are working on it with
me you know
um and and that could be a movie it
could be a TV show it could be an
ashtray it could be it could be any
number of things but but to me when I'm
excited about it and and when it works
is when I really think it is the thing
that I wanted it to be which is a thing
that I'm excited about and a thing that
if I saw it and someone else made it I'd
be like yes that's awesome you know
um and that's the same thing since we've
been writing super bad like that's why
we wrote super bad we were like let's
write our favorite movie let's write the
movie that we want to see and no one
else is making and it was the same thing
with Pineapple Express this is the end
and the boys was a comic book we loved
we were like let's make this no one else
is gonna [__] let's make this into
something you know um it's the same
thing with everything that we've done
for the most part which is like let's
make the thing we want more than
anything why not make the thing that you
think other people want and
because who the [__] knows what other
people want
and I think luckily
that's a thing we've been lucky with is
like either our taste in the public
taste has coincided or or the public has
been willing to take cues from our taste
and and and and and and bite to to what
we're putting out there you know what I
mean um which is which is just uh an
almost intangible skill I think to some
degree which is just making things that
connect with people in a big way and
that's not even what every creative
person is trying to do you know what I
mean I know plenty of filmmakers I some
of my favorite movies are movies that
are not trying to connect with giant
audiences you know what I mean but those
are the movies we grew up loving and to
us that's a fun challenge is like how do
we
put everything that we think is like
risky and subversive and difficult about
this idea into something and then have
it connect and then have everyone go
crazy for it and have everyone be like
yes like I can't wait to see that you
know um and that
that's just our taste you know what I
mean is we like to we're thinking of
like a packed theater Friday night and
just wanting people to like go Bonkers
you know and like that's not everyone's
goal you know and so that that that's a
big part of it too is like what kind of
audience are you are you hoping to have
you know when people you know study
people like you they're always looking
for like the the themes like what's the
three things he does that it would like
they're trying to find like the secrets
and whatever else they do that what's
his morning routine whatever else
um your creative process what is from
your own observation the most unusual
part of it the part that you go no one
else seems to do it this way but [__] it
I I tend to be able to work on
a
not everyone and I work with a lot I'm
lucky also because I get to work with a
lot of like literally like the most
brilliant people in the world who do
what I do so I have a very front row
seat to like an incredibly high level of
performance you know
um on a writing standpoint acting
standpoint directing standpoint
all these things I'm getting to see like
truly the best versions of it you know
um but I think
you know for me I I am I am good at
Switching gears and compartmentalizing I
find some writers maybe would think that
is strange and and the idea of like
writing two things it two different
things in one day would be strange to
some writers the idea of like okay I'm
gonna write one TV show in the morning
and then a movie in the afternoon I
think that but again to me it's very
intuitive some writers find Switching
gears creatively especially midday
difficult I I can work on five different
things throughout the day and whenever
I'm working on whatever thing it is I'm
pretty able to like fully engage on that
thing
um
I I physically write more than I think
most people would depend no with on a
keyboard but like I find a lot of
writers want to talk about like to me
I'm like just write it let's just write
it let's just see how it looks let's
just try it just write it down like and
I think a lot of people are precious
with writing and a lot of people
you know it's like a big they kind of
like they try to like it's very like
sanctimonious or something like that you
know but I I try to like really just
write different versions of things share
I share a lot of early versions of
things with like a group of people that
I trust I'm sending rough versions of
things to people I'll rewrite it
instantly I'll do a hundred drafts or
something you know um I'm really not
precious with that you know but but I
don't know I mean I I don't know if like
yeah I don't know what other I don't
know people expect I I'm I'm more
Curious than other people's creative
processes honestly like it's so
ingrained in who I am yeah I've been
doing it since I was so young like it's
it it's truly like a part of like my
brain chemistry is and my development
was is built around you know writing and
and Writing Movies specifically so like
my my personality I think in some ways
is is is is engineered around writing
and and and making movies in some ways
because I've been doing it since I was
so young so I really think it's like
it's become a very fluid part of who I
am and it doesn't feel like often I'm
like sitting down to work it's like it's
just kind of a fluid part of my day I do
also have like I'm very I get a schedule
sent to me by my assistant at the end of
every night it tells me what I'm doing
the next day
pretty much just do what's on the
schedule she sends you an email right
yeah and it will say 10 p.m do this Seth
yeah it'll be like 10 a.m to 2 A.M but
and they'll be like giant free blocks of
time in there where I will write usually
or me and my partner will organize our
own we'll we'll organize our own writing
time amidst that but uh yeah I mean I'm
pretty regimented from a schedule
standby which does surprise people
because
people will encounter me and be like
let's get together like sometime this
week and I'm always like like I'm like
scheduled like like a month out pretty
rigorously throughout the days but if I
asked you what your schedule was next
week would you have no [__] clue
I know my schedule is Monday I've also
yeah like I'm not I'm good at I I like
dealing what's right in front of me
honestly as well like I I I can't begin
to process what's happening next week
like I I truly that's too much for me
like I
I know like the big things like the
benchmarks you know what I mean but if
you're leaving the country yeah if
there's some big thing I have to do but
like in general I have no idea what's
happening the week before
a bit of a left filled one but have you
um observed a a point in your your
trajectory where
you become somewhat so successful or
somewhat you know so famous that
happiness begins to decline no
it was never like
being famous was never like a goal for
me you know what I mean and so I don't
have like this
this complicated thing where I was like
I was trying to become famous and then I
got famous and I realized being famous
sucks I always stop being famous kind of
would suck a little bit and so the idea
that it is you know it's great in a lot
of ways and it and it does suck in some
ways but that's not honestly a thing
that I have a very conflicted
relationship with I've also been pretty
famous since I was like 23 years old and
again like like it's been a you know
it's been a very long time since I got
pretty famous so I've had a lot of
different relationships with it
throughout that time uh you know almost
20 years I guess and where I've been at
for quite some time has been a pretty
good place and I have a lot of famous
friends I see them have much
rockier roads dealing with it than I do
you know
um yeah and as far as success goes like
no like if anything it's like great like
we I get to work with
the best you know the filmmakers that
inspired me to make movies in the first
place I get to you know make you know I
they they bring us Ninja I get to make a
movie out of a thing I've loved since I
was a kid we just sold a show to Apple
that I'm writing and directing and
starring in with um with my partner so
we can come up with original ideas and
do whatever the [__] we want you know
and so uh what's the cost
there's no cost I don't have kids
I think that I was not being a good
father that would suck I do not have
that feeling at all
we have a we have a closing tradition on
this podcast where the last guest leaves
a question for the next guest okay great
not knowing who they're leaving it for
we have a new tradition on this podcast
which I'll talk to you about great the
the question left for you yeah okay the
handwriting is not the best
um who left it I can't tell you okay
looking back on your love life okay can
you see patterns in it good or bad and
what was the greatest love of your life
what did it feel like and how has it
affected you up until this present
moment I guess this is a good time to
slide that to you there you go Lauren
yeah I mean I
I made a whole movie about how I was not
well liked in high school by women and
yeah I was never
uh no Lauren my wife was the first
serious relationship I ever had uh I
felt deeply in love with her very fast
we essentially moved in together after
like a week and almost have not spent
any like significant time apart since
then you know
um we've never broken up we've never had
any serious issue throughout the entire
uh time we've been together which has
been like 17 years or something like
that
um and if anything she is like really
helped me do better work she's been a
real supporter and also she herself is a
brilliant writer and director and
filmmaker and she's been you know a very
at times kind of
direct voice in in improving our work I
think the most tangible thing is the
movie Neighbors which we've talked about
in the past which is our most successful
movie we've made and and one of the
things people really liked about it
specifically was the relationship
between me and and Rose Byrne's
character and how we are a couple you
know traditionally in comedy for years
and my entire childhood pretty much it's
like the comedic Dynamic of a married
couple was they hated each other that
was the joke they [__] hated each
other they they got on each other's
nerves they didn't like spending time
together the woman was usually annoying
the guy was usually cool and laid back
that was it that was the comedic Dynamic
that essentially was like frozen into
movie you know forever and and Lauren
was the one who was like What if it's
like us and they [__] like each other
and they both like to smoke weed and
they both do stupid things and they both
go out and party and I'm not telling you
ever to not do something [__] stupid
if anything I'm doing stupid things too
and we put that in the movie and it
completely changed the dynamic and I
honestly think it's like one of the
reasons the movie became so like liked
and and successful and and so that's
like a specific example and there's
there's many like what's life like
without her though
um thank God there's not a whole lot of
life without her we hang out a lot uh
and I I don't really leave LA to make
movies anymore honestly part of the
reason is I just like spending time with
her and and I don't like leaving Los
Angeles as a result of it I used to
travel much more to make movies and
shoot movies in other cities and it
sucked and I would go weeks we'd go
weeks without seeing each other and and
ultimately you're just like this isn't
worth it like this is my life like this
is like like I'm not like saving up to
cash in on something later like I'm I'm
living my life not being surrounded by
the people I want to be surrounded by so
I can
go make a movie and like that that that
at times might be worth it but I've done
everything I can to not have that happen
and if you're willing to make a little
less money you can more often than not
shoot a movie in Los Angeles
it's funny when I asked you what makes
life great and what makes life more
human everything every answer you gave
came with the second part of the
sentence which was with friends with the
person I love with everyone every answer
was with people and so it's it's quite I
think inspiring and important to hear
that um you're orientating your life now
that you can so that it's surrounded by
people yeah I think it's always how I
came up thank God and like I
you know my parents had a lot of friends
they always had people living with us in
our house that were divorced or talented
like it was I was was in like I felt
like I was in like a community and then
I moved to LA and I like fell in with
the community and I had my friend Evan
and he moved in and we kind of made a
little community and like comedy
especially
feat is like a is more of a team sport
than other
I think creative Pursuits
um and it's it's funny like I remember
years ago being at like that Vanity Fair
Oscar party and it's like
you know big crazy party everyone in
Hollywood's there and there's like one
corner of the party where every comedian
is and they're like all together in one
little lump and like and and it was like
and it was so funny and I was just like
no other genres like that like they're
not it's like all the serious actors are
together they're they're all spread out
they're all talking to people but if you
were a comedian you were in this one
little like Circle where you kind of
felt safe you kind of felt insulated you
kind of felt like you were with your
people and that that Community as far as
work goes and I'm friends with like
everyone I work with which is like great
like the guys I do sausage party with I
grew up with them the guy you know like
the the the
it like goes on and on and on and on
like I I I I tend to work with people
that I've known a really long time and
so when I'm working I'm getting to be
with people that I that I genuinely care
about and I'm friends with you what a
privilege yeah you're the first person
to open this box great the first person
to ever open this box this is a new
tradition we're starting from here on
now it's exciting all the guests that
have been on this podcast all the
questions they've written in this book
they're on cards now they're on cards
now fantastic yeah
you got swag
called The Diary of SEO conversation
cards you're going to be you're going to
be I've put 20 of them there's 60 of
them in total 60 or 100 of them in total
I've put 20 of them in here all I'm
going to ask you to do is to pick one at
random yeah and then answer the question
okay I'm gonna do it
okay
it's got a QR code
[Laughter]
hey it's got their handwriting
what is the greatest gift another human
has given you
[Laughter]
also I got paid a lot of money to make
green hornets so that was
no it was love though it's for sure love
[Laughter]
thank you Seth the hardback version of
your the paperback version of your book
is is now out it's out and it's
phenomenal thank you hilarious
I mostly didn't want to humiliate myself
that was Michael I was talking to
another friend of mine who's writing a
book the other day uh and I was just
like my whole goal was to for the book
to come out and they're into the general
consensus to be that I'm not a [__]
idiot
which I did I feel I feel very secure
with that thank you thank you
[Music]
it's now been a healed Drinker for about
four years roughly so much so that I
ended up investing in the company
um and I play a role on the board of the
company but they also very kindly
sponsored this podcast and to be honest
I've never said this before but he all
believed in this podcast before anybody
else the CEO Julian
um told me before we even launched the
podcast how successful it would be and
that heal would back it and I absolutely
have a huge amount of gratitude for them
for that support but an even greater
sense of gratitude for the fact that
they've helped me stay nutritionally
complete throughout the chaos and
hecticness of my tremendously busy
business schedule so if you haven't
tried out here which I hope most of you
have at least given it a go by now try
it out it's an unbelievable way to try
and stay nutritionally on course if you
have a hectic busy schedule and let me
know what you think send me a tweet and
a DM tag me let me know what you think
quick word from one of our sponsors I
have to say I've been on a bit of a
journey with this brand because when I
started my business in new territories
when we first moved social chain to the
to New York City the first place we went
to was we rework we moved four of our
team members out to New York City and we
built the business from there
um I have to say there's something
magical about weworks I've spent the
last two or three weeks in LA in a wee
work and as you walk in the front door
every day it's almost like that sense of
community that sense of magic excitement
camaraderie is tangible and you don't
get that when you're working at home you
don't get that often when you're sat in
your bed on your laptop there's
something about getting out and getting
into a wee work that makes me feel a
sense of Entrepreneurship and and
creativity and building and the way that
we work to design both both in the way
that they offer subscriptions so that
you can work you know on demand but also
that the flexibility of the contracts
means that it's just the perfect place
for businesses to scale their companies
and if you haven't checked out where you
work and you want to you can go to
we.co CEO and there you can get 50 off
at trial Day At wework Close to You
oh
[Music]